# Grant Project Reflection Blog


My grant project titled “An Artistic Journey: Mapping Impressionistic Travels,” is a website centered around tracking the travels and correlated works of art of famous painters during the late 19th century, specifically: Monet, Van Gogh, and Picasso. The main focus of the site will be a mapping system that shows the various paths of movement of these three artists across their lifespan. 
Each artist will have a designated color for their path that correlates with a personal timeline. Using an interactive element on the map, the user will be able to click on the different destinations to view what famous paintings were created during the artist's time there. The images of the paintings will be taken from museums such as The Museum of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York and several others. 
An interactive timeline will also be included to give a concrete base for the user to see all three artists’ lives comparatively alongside the map. I will be using TimeLine JS alongside NeatLine and Omeca on a self-owned domain to create the project.
	Even after I conducted my research, my project topic and main ideas have not wavered. Despite the massive amount of research already completed on these three artists, I have yet to find a project that has all three together under one cohesive project. This further emphasizes the need and importance of my project to act as a conglomeration of some of the most notable and innovative painters of all time. 
The research has not been overall difficult for this project. Monet, Van Gogh, and Picasso are well known and sought after artists both in the scholarly art world and in everyday life. There have been a slew of sources documenting their travels and personal accomplishments so finding the information I need to create the project’s map and timeline has not been a problem.
	I was inspired by the mapping project [The Van Gogh Route](https://www.vangoghroute.com/) created by the Judith de Bruijn Art Projects. They used a similar method of mapping, however, they focused solely on Van Gogh rather than other influential artists during that time period. In doing so, the Route is able to incorporate a “walking trail” for the user that shows specific destinations for each city Van Gogh visited. This established an incredibly in depth and detailed outline of Van Gogh’s travels, for it goes as far as listing specific buildings the artists frequented. Below I have included a screenshot of the Route's homepage and ma

Although this information is valuable, my project will look at the three artist's travels from a broader perspective. I will use the same methods, but act as a “one-stop-shop” for users who are curious about three of the most notable painters and their life travels on a more general level.
The importance of an artist’s travels was further emphasized for me with my discovery of Christiane Hellmanzik’s 2012 article, [“Does travel inspire?”](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00181-012-0617-x) where she explored the notion that experience and travel makes an artist’s work more valuable in the end. These two pieces act as the base for my research and inspiration for my project.


